# Project 1

This section describes the tools and resources needed for completing project 1
and gives recommended implementation steps and tips. 

**Objective:** Implement all the logic gates presented in the chapter. The only
building blocks that you can use are primitive Nand gates and the composite
gates that you will gradually build on top of them.

**Resources:** We assume that you’ve already downloaded the Nand to Tetris zip
file, containing the book’s software suite, and that you’ve extracted it into a
folder named nand2tetris on your computer. If that is the case, then the
nand2tetris/tools folder on your computer contains the hardware simulator
discussed in this chapter. This program, along with a plain text editor, are
the only tools needed for completing project 1 as well as all the other
hardware projects described in the book.

The fifteen chips mentioned in this chapter, except for Nand, should be
implemented in the HDL language described in appendix 2. For each chip Xxx, we
provide a skeletal `Xxx.hdl` program (sometimes called a stub file) with a
missing implementation part. In addition, for each chip we provide an `Xxx.tst`
script that tells the hardware simulator how to test it, along with an `Xxx.cmp`
compare file that lists the correct output that the supplied test is expected
to generate. All these files are available in your `nand2tetris/projects/01`
folder. Your job is to complete and test all the `Xxx.hdl` files in this folder.
These files can be written and edited using any plain text editor.

Contract: When loaded into the hardware simulator, your chip design (modified
`.hdl` program), tested on the supplied `.tst` file, should produce the outputs
listed in the supplied `.cmp` file. If the actual outputs generated by the
simulator disagree with the desired outputs, the simulator will stop the
simulation and produce an error message.

**Steps:** We recommend proceeding in the following order:

0. The hardware simulator needed for this project is available in
   `nand2tetris/tools`
1. Consult appendix 2 (HDL), as needed.
2. Consult the Hardware Simulator Tutorial (available at www.nand2tetris.org),
   as needed.
3. Build and simulate all the chips listed in `nand2tetris/projects/01`.

### General Implementation Tips 

(We use the terms gate and chip interchangeably.)

* Each gate can be implemented in more than one way. The simpler the
  implementation, the better. As a general rule, strive to use as few
  chip-parts as possible.
* Although each chip can be implemented directly from Nand gates only, we
  recommend always using composite gates that were already implemented. See the
  previous tip.
* There is no need to build “helper chips” of your own design. Your HDL
  programs should use only the chips mentioned in this chapter.
* Implement the chips in the order in which they appear in the chapter. If, for
  some reason, you don’t complete the HDL implementation of some chip, you can
  still use it as a chip-part in other HDL programs. Simply rename the chip
  file, or remove it from the folder, causing the simulator to use its built-in
  version instead.
